##  Cloud Computing
Cloud storage is for data and cloud computing is for processes. cloud storage simple holds your data while cloud computing allow you to do things with the data. In a simple words saving or accesing your data and programs over the internet. Cloud computing making computer infrastructure and services avaliable as per ned using internet.In cloud infrastructure include 
storage space, development IDE, database,computing power and complete software applications. It is on-demand avaliablility of the computer system via the internet. The cloud is not a physical entity but instead is a vast network of remote services around the globe which are together and meant to operate as a single user. In a bussiness way your team meambers can view and share information easily and secuerly across a cloud-based plateform. Some 
cloud based services even provided collaboration social space to connect employess your organisation therefore increase interest.
## Example 
gmail, facebook, skype and others.
It stored data on cloud and you cav access them on any computer. There  is a no chance of data loss.

## Types of Cloud Computing
# 1.Public Cloud 
# 2. private 
# 3. Hybrid

## Public clouds
Public clouds are created from IT infrastructure not owned by the end user. Some of the largest public cloud providers include Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure.
It is used by more persons. For example Bus.
    
## Private clouds
Private clouds are loosely defined as  environments solely dedicated to a single end user or group, where the environment usually runs behind that user or group's firewall. All clouds become private clouds when the underlying IT infrastructure is dedicated to a single customer with completely isolated access. For example Own car
## Hybrid clouds
A hybrid cloud is a seemingly single IT environment created from multiple environments connected through local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), virtual private networks (VPNs), and/or APIs.
For Example
1. At least one private cloud and at least one public cloud
2. Two or more private clouds
3. Two or more public clouds
4. A bare-metal or virtual environment connected to at least one public cloud or private cloud
## Cloud services
# 1. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS
# 2. Platform as a Service (PaaS)
# 3. Software as a Service (SaaS)

##  IaaS

IaaS delivers on-demand infrastructure resources, such as compute, storage, networking, and virtualization. With IaaS, the service provider owns and operates the infrastructure, but customers will need to purchase and manage software, such as operating systems, middleware, data, and applications.

## PaaS

PaaS delivers and manages hardware and software resources for developing, testing, delivering, and managing cloud applications. Providers typically offer middleware, development tools, and cloud databases within their PaaS offerings.


## Saas
SaaS provides a full application stack as a service that customers can access and use. SaaS solutions often come as ready-to-use applications, which are managed and maintained by the cloud service provider.
